Book Club Week 1: Introduction to Linchpin
All right, so book club week number one, we're jumping into one of my personal favorite books, which is Linchpin by Seth Godin. Now to give you a little bit of background on where this fits into my particular history. I think when I was reading this book, I was living in Town of Diga, Alabama, working with the church there, staying on a lake in a house that a couple of folks at the church had loaned us to live in for a little while, and I read this book, and it absolutely shook me to my core in a lot of different ways.

Impact on Various Roles
Now of course, like the applications I made then were to ministry and then later on, I'd make applications to run and copy shops or healthcare companies or whatever else, but the thing that I found true is that this book lays out a lot of foundational stuff that impacts basically every level of every organization that I've ever worked with. And so some of the things that we're gonna be talking about here, it doesn't matter if you're the dishwasher in the kitchen at the local joint or you're the regional director of operations for a healthcare company. The things that we learn here are going to make you a better human being, a better employee, and even a better employer.

Importance of the Linchpin Concept
And so I think about this book a lot to the extent that Kara said the other day, that it does not surprise her at all that book that we're covering first is this book because I use the phrase Linchpin pretty commonly. So before we get too deep into the book, let's talk about what a Linchpin is. So basically back before we had cars and we had horse and buggies, you had an axle, you had a hub, and that hub for the wheel would go over the axle, the Linchpin would drop right in and lock that hub in place.

Definition of a Linchpin
And so when we're talking about a Linchpin, we're talking about somebody who is at the center of everything who holds everything together. And so if we're making that application to business, of course we're gonna bring it out as we're talking through this. We're talking about somebody who is at the center of an organization, not necessarily because of their position, but because of how they perform. They're at the center of their organization and they hold everything else together, whether it's customers, whether it's the boss, whether it's their coworkers, they're that Linchpin and sinks it up and holds it together.

Are You Indispensable?
And the one thing that Seth Godin brings out here with his subtitle is "Are you indispensable?" And so we've talked about before a lot of us that everybody's replaceable, everybody's replaceable. But this book goes to the point to say that not everybody is replaceable and we shouldn't necessarily view human beings as replaceable or dispensable when we can train and teach and equip them to be indispensable in their role and in their job.

Book Club Structure
So this is week number one. We're gonna cover this book in about a month, so four-week sections or chapters one through three is what we're gonna be talking about today. We're gonna cover the new world of work, what work and business kind of looks like now. And of course, when Godin wrote this book several years ago, the world was a little bit different than it is today. So we'll be bringing some of those lessons forward. We're gonna be thinking about the choices that we have, whether we want to choose to be a Linchpin or not because it is a decision that each of us has to make.

Indoctrination
And then indoctrination, which is a really interesting chapter where Godin talks about how do we get to the point where we're just cogs in a machine? Like, it hasn't always been that way. People haven't always functioned that way. We haven't always worked in factories or in cubicles. How the hell did we get here? And so that's what Linchpin, these first three sections are kind of about.

Section by Section Analysis
So jumping into it, one of the things that he brings out first that struck me. And so as we're wearing it through this, typically the format is gonna be, hey, we're going section by section. I'm gonna give you kind of like the general synopsis theme or topic at the top. I'm gonna pull out a few quotes or ideas and then the floor is open for us to talk about these things. So these are things that I highlighted or notated as I was reading through the book that really stuck out to me. You're gonna see things that I missed because every time I read a book at whatever individual point in my life, I see different things. So this is when I saw this time when I was reading through.

Are You a Genius?
And so the question that he poses at the beginning of the book is are you a genius? And so my gut response initially when I was reading this book is absolutely not. Now, let me rewind that. I was egotistical enough at that point in my life to believe that it was possible that I might be a genius. But he's asking the question, posing it to people, the vast majority of us are gonna answer no. Absolutely not. But then he starts to hash out what we're talking about when we talk about a genius. And this is his definition.

Definition of Genius
John says a genius looks at something that others are stuck on and gets the world unstuck. And so it doesn't matter what organization you're in, what type of industry you're in. We're talking about somebody who can look at something that other people are stuck or hung up on. It's the solution and get that solution active. Get the world unstuck.

Practical Example of Genius
Let's use a common example. Let's say for example, a back of house employee, maybe our kitchen folks are stuck on the fact that they can't for whatever reason, understand that they need to turn the fryers off at night. And this has been going on for weeks or months where people routinely leave the fryers on. That's a pretty big problem. We could have a fire for some reason they're stuck on that. This is a pretty elementary example, but a genius looks at this and say, hey, we keep getting the same results. How can we get unstuck on this thing? What do we need to change? What do we need to put in place so that this does not continue to happen? And then the genius says, all right, we're going to put a checklist in place. We're going to make sure that everybody gets trained on that checklist. And then we're going to monitor it on the back end. And chances are moving forward, 95% of the time, fryers are going to be turned off at least 95% of the time. So a genius in that situation is somebody who takes a practical problem that everybody else is hung up on. It gives us a solution and then gets us to that solution. So that's what a genius is.

Genius and Stability
Another quote that stuck out to me is talking about genius or where we are. He says, our culture is engaged in a Faustian bargain in which we trade our genius and artistry for apparent stability. And so this one really hit home for me. He talks about a Faustian bargain. Basically, all that is is when we choose to value material things, material value over moral virtue. So we're putting material value ahead of moral virtue. We're making a trade where I say, I'm going to compromise my art, my genius, my creativity in order for something else of material value. In this situation, he says, I'm going to sacrifice genius, artistry, creativity. And I'm going to change that in for stability. The problem is when we look at the world that we live in today, that's not a good trade. Because when you trade in a genius and artistry and creativity, you think you're getting stability in return. Countless people among this, myself included, have worked at jobs where they thought they had stability. And that was not the case. Whether they elected out and chose to go do something different or whether they were, it was elected for them and they were laid off. It's not really stable. And so when we're talking about this trade, it seems like it might be a good trade for a lot of folks. Like, I want stability. I want regular income. I want dependability. But in the society that we live in, when the vast majority of employers view employees as dispensable, there's really no stability there. So our culture is given this trade. It's not necessarily in our best interest, but it's where we are.

Linchpin's Core Themes
He goes on and he starts to talk about what this book Linchpin is really about. So this is a slide I wanted to say a little bit of attention to as we're working through this so that we can lay the groundwork for the rest of the book. What is Linchpin really about when you get down to it? He says it's about love and it's about art, which I think are beautiful things. I think when we think about our work, whether it's flipping burgers or delivering parcels or digging ditches, we don't think about it in the sense of love and art. But work when it's done correctly, when we view it through the lens of craftsmanship, you can see that love and that art. And being a Linchpin really factors in there.

Change and Fear
He also says that this book is about change and fear. So in the sense that like a lot of us are afraid of being different or stepping outside the box or looking at things from a different perspective. So fear factors into our decision-making processes for a lot of different reasons. We evolved in a society or we evolved as a species where when you did something that could cause you harm, you died. And so we learned very quickly, hey, don't go in the tall grass. Hey, look out for these animals. Don't go here because that fear kept us away from those things that would really do us harm. Most of the time now, our fear is just overreaction to situations that in and of themselves aren't going to do us physical harm, but hell that anxiety feels real. And so he talks about change and fear, a good deal in this book.

Overcoming Indoctrination
He also talks about overcoming a conspiracy, designed to sap your creativity and restlessness. We're going to talk about that a little bit when we talk about indoctrination. But what he basically says in that particular section of the book is the way that we're living now as a result of the industrial revolution, factories, Henry Ford, fuck that guy, he put all those things in a place to get us where we are today. And we live in a society where from the time we're in kindergarten to graduate college, we're teaching people to be obedient, not to be creative, and we're trying to suck all that creativity and restlessness out of them because we want good, dependable, obedient employees in our factories. And a factory can be anything from a traditional factory making cars to a cubicle farm answering customer service questions, anything in between. But this book is about overcoming that conspiracy to take away our creativity.

Leading and Making a Difference
He also says that this book is about leading and making a difference. Anybody can be a leader because a leader is not necessarily a position. It is a mindset, even the folks that are waiting tables, even the folks that are driving the forklift, they can be leaders in our organizations and amongst our people.

Succeeding
Then finally, he says this book is about succeeding. I want you to be successful. I want to be successful. I want to see the people that work with me be successful. And this is one of those books that will help us get to that point where we can succeed.

Best Possible Outcome
All right, next slide. What does the best possible outcome look like? You're reading this book, you're going along through it. What does the best possible outcome actually look like? And Godin says, the best future available to us, all of us, collectively, is the future where you contribute your true self and your best work. And I found this to be true over and over and over again. The best possible outcome for you as an individual, the best possible outcome for the business that you're involved with, the best possible outcome for your community for our society, is for you as an individual and every other individual to contribute their best self and do their best work.

Personal Fulfillment
The times in my life, why I felt most fulfilled and where I've been most happy are the times where I've been able to show up as my true self and therefore do my best work. There have been situations I've been in where that was not the case. And so the photo I dropped on this slide is one that is absolutely ridiculous. This is a photo that was used by a publication Birmingham when I was doing Bigfoot Church and doing yoga in a park, at least once a week, most of the time it's three days a week because I was really enjoying myself. And I pulled that out there, did a lot of whatever you put out in the world, but I was showing up as my true self in a weird way because it was just about having fun and building community and connecting with people. And I felt creative and I was writing and I was inspired and I was working with other business owners to build their business. And so it was a really important, special time in my life.

True Self at Work
And then I've tried to show up subsequently having learned that lesson as my true self. There have been times where that has not been the case, especially for me working in the healthcare setting. It was very difficult for me to be able to show up as myself. Now, we still tried. We still did our dead level best. But the situation was not conducive for me showing up as my true self. But what the best possible outcome is for all of us is for you to be able to show up as your true self and do your best work. I don't want anything different from you. And it doesn't matter where you work or who you are. Showing up as your best self, your true self, will enable you to do your best work and will benefit most people around you.

Opportunities
And here's the cool thing, you have the opportunity. You have the opportunity to show up as your best self and do your best work. You also have the opportunity to do a few things that Godin outlines here to enjoy what you do. Everybody should be entitled to a job that they enjoy. It is out there, you can find it. You don't have to suffer through. And so you have the opportunity to do what you enjoy.

Making a Difference
You have the opportunity to make a difference with your colleagues. One of the things for me that's very important for a sense of satisfaction is knowing I'm benefiting the lives of the people that I work with. So as I'm going through this personal transition where I'm leaving Auburn, moving Austin, changing jobs, leaving those relationships that I've built here behind to go on and continue and exist in this particular business, it's really important to me to have this sense that I actually did benefit other people in some tangible way. And so you have the opportunity to do that in your job to make a difference to your colleagues.

Impact on Customers and Unlocking Genius
You have the opportunity to make an impact to your customers and you have the opportunity to unlock your hidden genius. Because I think all of us have the propensity to be geniuses. We can identify areas that are sticky, get folks unstuck and create creative solutions.

The Bar Stool Concept
I put on here a picture of a bar stool. This is one of the foundational ways that I think about business. And it kind of touches on it here. When you're dealing with business, like, first of all, let's say this, if you sit on a bar stool where one leg is kind of wonky, it sucks. Bad bar stools are the absolute worst. So in a perfect scenario, you want all four legs of that bar stool to be equal, to be taken care of. And so for me, I think about those legs of that bar stool as being the primary stakeholders of every organization.

Stakeholders in Every Organization
And in every organization, you have at least four primary stakeholders. Number one, the first one, when you say stakeholders, you're going to think about this. You're thinking about the people who have invested the money up front. Maybe it's a business owner. Maybe it's a private equity group. Maybe it's people who have lost stock. Like, you're thinking about investors. People have given the capital in order to do this. So they've definitely got stake in the game. They're stakeholders. And functioning in a job being successful part of that includes doing what's best for them, meeting their best interests, which most of the time for stakeholders means making them feel good and making them money. That's it.

Employees as Stakeholders
So investors is one part. Another one, when it comes down to stakeholders, you've got to think about employees. People who work for that business, they depend upon the income of that business to pay their bills. They're stakeholders. And so if you're in a leadership position, you're trying to lead a successful business. Not only are you going to take care of investors, you're also going to take care of employees and make sure that they've got what they need in order to thrive and be successful. So when I say we're an employee-first organization, that's what I mean. It's my job to take care of employees so that they can do their job.

Customers and Vendors as Stakeholders
So you've got investors, you've got employees, you've got customers, which are also stakeholders. That's that third leg to this bar stool. We want them to be taken care of. We want to give great customer service. We want to provide a great product. We want to do that. And then the fourth, and this one's often overlooked, is vendors. Vendors are your fourth leg. You can't serve customers or your employees or your investors without those vendors. And so building positive relationships with vendors, whether it's taking care of your guy who delivers your towels or making sure that you're communicating in a positive respectful way with your food suppliers, or sitting down on occasion, having a beer with your beer providers, like doing those things and building those positive relationships really help to benefit a business.

Importance of All Four Stakeholders
So those are the four legs of that bar stool and it's not just for restaurants. This is true for healthcare companies as well. This is true for whether you're building a new SaaS company, taking care of those four people, investors, employees, customers, and vendors will help you be very successful. And that's kind of what Godin outlines here, not explicitly, but you have the opportunity by being a linchpin to be at the center of those four people and see that everybody's playing nice with everybody else. Everybody's needs are being met and you're creating what another author calls wins to the fourth power, wins for everybody else.

Talent and Creativity Over Obedience
Godin also touches on something that is a hairy sticky point for a lot of us. He makes a statement that talent and creativity are greater than obedience. Talent and creativity are greater than obedience. Now, we're taught from a very young age, if you were raised in a conservative Christian fundamentalist background, like some of us were, you were taught how important obedience is right out of the gate. And then it's drilled into you for the rest of your life. Anytime you step out of line, you're disobeying or being disobedient or haven't helped you, you're lost and going to hell. So I mean, get back in line, be obedient is one of those things that you're taught the entirety of your life. We also teach it in school. We teach students to be obedient. Do this, don't do that. Follow these instructions, follow the rules. But Godin makes a statement that talent and creativity are greater than obedience.

The Role of Obedience
That does not mean that obedience is irrelevant because it's not. We as a society, we have agreed that we have to maintain or stick within certain parameters in order for our society to function. You have to do it. You can't be the asshole that's being completely disregarding all the other rules or stipulations or things that we've all agreed on and causing everybody else harm and damage in the process. So obedience has its place, but I think a greater value when it comes down to being a linchpin, being irreplaceable in the workplace, being a fulfilled and a happy individual. When it comes down to it, it's not really obedience that's going to get you there. It's that talent and creativity coupled with obedience, yeah. But talent and creativity are what's really going to make the difference. When it comes down to your sense of satisfaction and feeling like you can show up as the best version of yourself.

The New World of Work
He outlines also in this section, moving on to section number two, the new world of work. So when Seth Godin was writing this book, he did not have open AI. We weren't talking about large language models. We weren't farming some of these things out to computers to do. Granted, we were still there, still moving on, still progressing. There were some big tech companies when he wrote this book. He wasn't living in a cave. But the world is different now than it was then, but what he outlines in the new world of work is still very applicable.

Factories vs. Humans
And I've kind of summarized it here in the two main buckets, what factories want and what humans need. Now, when I use the term factories, just like he does, he outlines this in the book. He says he's not just talking about sweatshops where they're building cars or cotton linen. He says anywhere where we're taking cheap labor, reproducing the same thing over and over and over again in order to sell it at a lower price to a broader market. And so that's where you have one main guy who is the Romber Baron, who's making all the money. Everybody else is living in squander and they're selling a cheap, consumable product to the vast majority of people. There are a lot of businesses like that. Some of them are publicly traded companies that are viewed as tech companies, but we're talking about the same thing here.

What Factories Want
So this is what factories want. This is what capital wants. This is what business owners who aren't thinking ethically about the way that they treat their employees want. They want compliance. I'm gonna give you a handbook, a rulebook, a guidebook, and I expect you to obey. No deviation, no stepping out of it. And here's the reason why. If you're on an assembly line, there's no room for creative license or artistry. You're tightening this bolt to the same amount of torque pressure every single time. This one bolt tightens the same amount of torque pressure every time and I need you to be compliant because Joe on your right and Susie on your left are depending on you to tighten this bolt to this exact torque power compliance.

Cheap Labor and Replaceable Staff
Factories also want cheap labor. They want to get people who they can employ for the least amount of money, teach them to do this relatively simple task over and over and over again so that they can make the most amount of money on the back end. And it's a basic fundamental of capitalism. The business owner makes whatever they can save in producing this product. And so the cheaper their labor is, the lower their cost is, the more money they're gonna make. And so they're involved or interested in cheap labor. They want replaceable staff and throughout the industrial revolution. So we're talking like 1800s, especially the mid to late 1800s all the way up to the present day, they want people who they can hire cheap, who if they're unhappy or not doing their job, they boot them and the next day they can bring somebody in and they can teach them to do it, replaceable staff. And then they want hierarchy. They want the person at the top of the factory to be there so business owners, factory operators, managers, leaders, and then everybody else down at the bottom so they want this stiff hierarchy.

What Humans Need
But contrasted with that, if factories want compliance and cheap labor and replaceable staff and hierarchy, what human beings actually really need is creativity. Like not just compliance, we need room to wiggle and be creative and bring ideas and concepts into the world. Even some of the people that I've known in my life who have been involved in some of these redundant tasks, they still look for outlets for their own personal creativity, not only in their work, but also in life. And so human beings need to be creative. We need to bring these ideas and concepts out into the world. It's part of what makes us us. Human beings instead of just being viewed as cheap labor, they need fair wages. If you look over the history of humankind, especially from the Industrial Revolution until the present, people have not been paid fairly. And I have the feeling and I think some data backs this up that the situation is only becoming worse. So wages have not increased, have not improved, have not grown for the vast majority of folks, which explains the vanishing middle class that doesn't exist anymore. Now we've got a huge amount of wealth up at the top and then everybody else living off a squander at the bottom. So we haven't seen fair wages, but that's what we need. Human beings need fair wages in order to live.

Dignity and Respect
Instead of being viewed as replaceable, human beings need dignity and respect. And everybody is entitled to this. Doesn't matter what their role is, where they fit into a business, everybody deserves dignity and respect. And then the factory wants hierarchy. They want this stark top-down. We're running a business this way, no deviation. What human beings really need is community. They need to feel like they're part of something. They need to feel like they matter. They need to feel like they have some autonomy and influence and self-determination. They need community. And so when we're looking at this new world of work, what factories and top-down businesses and robber barons want and what human beings really need are in juxtaposition and opposition with one another. Now we're not seeing the right things there.

The Role of Linchpins
But the fact of the matter is that Linchpins and he brings this out, bring humanity, connection, and art to their organizations. And so Linchpins fit into this dynamic where this dichotomy is the third group or third section. It's not just about what factories want. It's not just about what humans need. Linchpins help bring that harmony to this situation.

People Are Ends, Not Means
This is one thing that is sticky for me because it has become a non-negotiable. I don't remember where I first encountered this concept. At one point in my life, I was reading a ton of books on ethics. And this may have been buried in one of those books. But for me, this is a personal non-negotiable. And this is the way that I've summarized it. Human beings are not means to an end. So that means for a business owner, you can't view a human being, a single solitary human being as a means to an end. I want to make more money so I'm going to use this human being. I want to be more successful so I'm going to use this person. Human beings are not means to an end. Each individual human is an end in and of themselves. And so as a leader, as a manager, as a person who works with people, the things that really matter to me, this is top of the list. I will never, ever, ever, unless I have lost my brain, treat a human being as a means to an end. I try to the best of my ability when I'm sitting across from the table with folks, when I'm making up directions or ideas or concepts or standard operating procedures, I try to remember that everybody who's going to read this and write with this be influenced by this, they are an end in and of themselves. And that's one reason we want to see the people that work with us be successful and going and do other things because they have self-determination. And we want to enable them to achieve those goals. It's one of the reasons that being a manager or a leader or a business owner can be so fulfilling because you play such an integral part in people's lives to get them where they want to be in life. They are an end, every individual person, every employee is an end in and of themselves. And if you're running the right type of business, you've got to view people as people and not as cogs in a machine.

Building Businesses with Rules
Here's one of the questions that jumped out to me, having read everything that Seth Godin has said so far, like one of the things that come to mind for me, as a guy who loves SOP, standard operating procedures, is should we be building businesses without rules, procedures, and operating standards? Everything is said so far and it's like, here's what factories want it, here's what humans need. Linchpins, talent and creativity over obedience. So how does obedience and following the rules and standards and operating procedures factor into this? Should we be building businesses without rules? And the answer to that question is no. But I would say that our rules, our procedures, our operating standards should be designed to serve the people and not the other way around. And so whether it's creating a checklist for somebody in the kitchen, or whether it's putting together an employee handbook, that document where those processes should serve human beings and not human beings serving the document. That's one of the sidebar, that's one of the problems that I have with textual-based religions, like it's not just about human being serving a book. It's about books and ideas and concepts and processes serving human beings and helping them to live positive wholesome fulfilling lives. So by all means, create those SOPs, but make sure that they're serving the people that you work with.

Success in Organizations
There are a couple of the quotes that jumped out from me in the new world of work. He says, basically, there are only two choices. When it comes right down to it, you're running a business, you're a person operating it. You can win by being more ordinary, more standard, and cheaper, which means you can win by manipulating and using people for your own financial gain, or you can win by being faster, more remarkable, and more human. And the new world of work, the world that we're moving towards, is away from just being ordinary standard and cheaper. People are not inspired, do not enjoy things that are just ordinary, or standard, or cheap. For a lot of folks, that's all that they can afford. Okay, but that's not what really inspires them. The things that really turn us on are the things that inspire us to be more human. And so those things, we can win by being faster, more remarkable, and more human. We can win by, win by prioritizing the linchpins in our organizations. We can encourage creativity, and spontaneity, and choice, and those things are going to help us win.

Compensation and Cogs
He also makes a statement in this particular section that our world no longer fairly compensates. People who are cogs in a giant machine, and that's something we've already kind of touched on. Just being a cog in a machine, isn't going to pay the bills anymore. And so there's a call for people to be linchpins and be more creative.

Linchpins and Middlemen
In one section, Godin jumps into this Marxian dichotomy, where you have the bourgeoisie versus the proletariat, the capital, the people who own the business, versus the labor, the people who are actually doing the work, and providing the service, or creating a product. And from a Marxist perspective, those two are opposed to each other. And historically speaking, there's a lot of evidence to back that up. But linchpins in an organization, those people that are creative, those people that view their work as art, those people that don't view other people as means to an end, but as ends in and of themselves, those people who are concerned with all four stakeholders in a business, those linchpins had the ability to bring capital and labor together. And I've seen this play out over and over and over again. It is not an easy situation or position to be in. Personally, I have found myself in this position in a lot of different organizations doing a lot of different kinds of business, where you've got the money and the boss on one side, and you've got the people actually doing the work on the other side. And a lot of times, capital, bourgeoisie, they don't understand how their changes or ideas or concepts or whatever are going to impact labor on the other end. And a lot of times the labor doesn't understand. The bigger concepts or ideas that are influencing the decisions that capital's making, but a linchpin in the organization brings all of that together. So it's not an easy position to be middleman, but linchpins often find themselves as the middleman in an organization.

Income and Utility
We're running out of a little bit of time. We've eaten up a little bit of our time together, and I don't want to make it away yours, but I do have a few more slides I want us to work through. This is something that I ran across just the other day, and it factors in what Seth Godin is talking about here. Levels of income and utility. Utility means being useful. So if we're talking about linchpins, linchpins are infinitely useful to organizations. But if we start down there at the bottom step, what we're talking about down at the bottom step implementation or lifting is what Seth Godin calls it in his book. This is where you take your time, multiplied by your physical effort, and it makes you money. Quintessential example, somebody digging ditches. It's going to take his effort. He's the one digging ditches with a shovel, his effort, and he can only make as much money as the time that he has. That implementation, that lifting, that digging of that ditch down at the bottom run, that does not mean that somebody who's digging a ditch can't be a linchpin. They can be, but they've got to incorporate something higher up this ladder into their lives when it comes down to lifting.

Cooperation
Then you move up to cooperation. So think about somebody who's in a leadership or management level. We're still using time. You still have to invest time. We're still talking about your personal effort. So you have to put in the hours doing the work yourself, but there's a third factor that falls in here because we're cooperating with other people who are doing the lifting so that P can stand for people. So time and effort and people, that equals cooperation. So typically when we're thinking about income levels, we're thinking about somebody who's making a little bit more money than somebody at that bottom step. But the best leaders, the best managers are going to be people who incorporate imagination and communication into what they're doing and multiply their effectiveness.

Communication
You move on up and we move to communication. So you make it a little bit more money here. You're communicating. Now we're not just dealing with time and effort. We're talking about time. Everybody's got to find out amount of time and resources. So whether it's a podcast or a book, for example, I still get, and it's a minuscule amount. And so I can use this example and we can multiply it. I still get a little bit of money every month from Bigfoot Aronica that I wrote. I haven't touched it. Haven't changed it. Haven't marketed it. It's out there in the world. I invested that time and now I have this resource that continues to make me money. Authors who are selling millions of books a year, that's how they do it. They take their time, they create this thing, they communicate this thing. And now that resources out there and it's continuing to make them money. And as they incorporate more imagination, they can be more of a linchpin and can flesh that out.

Pure Imagination
And then up at the top, we have pure imagination. So somebody who is a linchpin to the eighth degree, somebody who's creating businesses, dealing with concepts, dealing with ideas, viewing people who are stuck and getting them unstuck. And really that's infinite because we're not just talking about lifting. We're not just talking about management. We're not just talking about communication and resources. We're talking about something now that has such a monumental impact that it can make a ton of money and can influence millions of people.

Successful Organizations
Seth Godin says this about successful organizations. It's a question. He said, would your organization be more successful if your employees were more obedient? And the implied answer there is no. Like what makes successful organization is not necessarily just more obedient people, more people who would just follow the rules. He says, or would you be more successful if your employees were more artistic, more motivated, more connected, more aware, more passionate, more genuine? Absolutely.

Real-World Example
To borrow an example from me and Kara, if you're dealing with somebody who is serving waiting tables, they're working, they're waiting tables, they're really at that bottom step. It's their time and their effort that makes money for them. And so they're lifting. They're doing a lot of work. But if you have somebody in that role who is artistic and motivated and connected and aware and passionate and genuine, you know what they're doing? They're really connecting with customers when they come in. They're really inspiring the people that they work with. They're identifying problems that they're encountering over and over and over again. And instead of just saying, this is broke, this is broke, this is broke, they're solving those problems. All right, Kara, what you got?

Hiring Smart
Kara: But to the point that you just made, you know, that's where hiring smart is gonna pay off so well in the long run. And you know, when you hire by the principles of the people that you want in that position, you know, you know, it's a look for. And you can tell when somebody just isn't gonna make it in the environment that you intend to set in your work environment or whatever it is, even if it just, you know, involves your leadership.

Setting the Tone
So when you surround yourself, but also surround other people with the people you want them to be and inevitably it will fall into place in some way. Now you do have this one-offs for people who are just like resistant to it or they're just not in the right place. But for the most part, you know, as a leader, it's so important to set the tone for the culture of your organization. So that way you have customers who are buying into your mission. You have employees buying into your mission. But also in turn, they take care of our guests, which builds brand recognition. It also builds loyalty and that can even span multi-generation. So, you know, that is, to me, one of the most important parts of being a leader.

Conclusion on Hiring
A hundred percent. I could not agree more. Could not agree more. And it is hiring practices. It's hiring smart. It's identifying people that aren't just looking to come in and tick off a box. Godin calls it, I think it's ABC. He refers to it as, people would just show up and get a check. I forget the particular acronym that he uses in the book. But it's more than that, like hiring people that really motivate and move along and inspire the culture in your organization. Think you do a good job of that. And I think you do a good job of recognizing people who do that, which is really key. Because of the things that we, yeah, the things that we identify and reward and the things that we acknowledge are the traits that people in our organization typically begin to emulate. The things that we, we praise, can really motivate people to do a good thing. So, yeah, your spot on hiring the right kind of people really makes all the difference.

Indoctrination and Creativity
So it goes without saying, we will be more successful if every employee is artistic, motivated, connected, aware, passionate, and genuine. Just like the outlines here. I'm gonna jump over a couple of slides. We're gonna go to indoctrination because this is something that is very funny to me. He says, we asked someone to do something wacky or original and then they change like the tiniest surface element instead of finding the root of a creative solution. So if we just tell somebody, do the craziest thing you can think of. Most of the time, it's gonna be relatively benign, relatively easy and simple in surface. And he says, there's no accident because that's what we taught them to do. We don't teach people from an early age in school to be creative to the eighth degree. In fact, most of the time when kids come into school and he points us out, they are creative or they are artists or they are doing these things. They are dreamers and then we just beat that out. We beat it out of them by the time they graduate high school, especially by the time they graduate college so that they're not viewed or viewing the world through that same lens. We say there's no accident because our health care system, our education system has been informed by the factory system which just wants obedient compliant workers on the back end. There's no room for that creativity or artistry. That's what we taught them to do. And so when you encourage people in your organization to do something crazy, I would be curious if you find this to be true as well.

School and Creativity
He goes on and he says instead of drilling or beating all this creativity and artistry out of people, this is really what school should be about. What should be taught in school? And he says two things. He says you should be taught in school to solve interesting problems. And that's true at every level. So for somebody in kindergarten, first grade, second grade, interesting problems may be simple math equations, interesting problems may be drawing shapes because that's really cool at that particular point in time. Interesting problems for somebody later on in life, multiplication tables, division, cool, awesome, interesting problems, interesting problems for somebody on the cusp of graduating high school, you're dealing with algebra, you're dealing with these concepts of physics like it's getting more complicated. So you've left behind problems that were interesting at one point and moved on to more interesting problems. And the thing is that should continue to happen throughout life, human beings as part of who we are and what we are, we want to discover new things. And so constantly, I want to solve interesting problems. And that's what we should be taught in school.

Leadership in School
And also he says number two, not only solve interesting problems, but the second thing we should be taught in schools, how to lead, how to lead and encourage other people to do the same things, solve interesting problems, how to lead by communicating the solution that we found to this interesting problem. So that other people know that problem has been solved and can go solve other interesting problems. And then that's how we progress as a society. That's how we improve as businesses.

Leading as a Skill
A couple of quotes I'm going to close out this particular session with that he brings out. And I think kind of lay the foundation for, okay, we've talked about some fundamental things about where we are and the type of economy that we work in and the new world of work. Now we're going to move in and talk you about Linchpins. He said leading is a skill, not a gift. It's not something that you have or don't have. It's something that you can learn. It is definitely a skill. And it's something that even good leaders can continue to improve upon and become better leaders.

Cogs vs. Linchpins
Another quote that he brings out is the distinction between cogs, just people in a machine, bottom for the system. The distinction between cogs and Linchpins is not necessarily one of learning. It's not that you don't know enough. It's not that you haven't had enough experience. It's not that you haven't had enough opportunity. It's not one of learning. It's a largely one of attitude. So it's the way that you look at the world, the way you view things, the way that you approach things. So being a Linchpin is not about what you know. It's about how you approach life and how you approach situations and how you approach problems. And I think that's fundamental to what he brings out here.

Summary of Sections
So that kind of ramps up for us and sets the stage for the rest of the book where he's gonna really get into the brass tacks of what it means to be a Linchpin. He summarized it really well from the fact that being a genius is not about IQ points. It's about something else. It's about getting people unstuck. He's talked about the best possible outcome, which is showing up at work as our truest self and being able to do our best work. We've emphasized the difference between what labor or the factory wants and what human beings need and how Linchpins can really bring those two together and synthesize that in an interesting way. And he's also brought out the fact that it doesn't matter whatever level you're at in your organization. Whether, first, just let's use a hotel as an example. Whether you're the housekeeper, whether you're the front desk manager, whether you're the director of revenue or whether you're the general manager, owner, owner of the ladder. It doesn't matter what level you're at at that organization. You can be a Linchpin by approaching the problems that you encounter in an interesting way, bringing people together, building, community, synthesizing these different needs. It's one of the reasons that I love this book is you don't have to be a manager in order to implement the things here. You don't have to be an owner of a business in order to implement these things here. You can make a difference at any level in any organization by being a Linchpin.

Open Discussion
So at the end of all our book clubs, I wanna open it up for any questions, comments, any quotes that jumped out to you that for whatever reason we haven't covered yet. So Kara, is there anything that, like I would love to hear your perspective on these first three chapters or this section and what you thought about it?

Kara's Perspective
Kara: Okay, so I think one of the things that stood out to me the most, that I, they really spoke to me and I resonated with, was having passion in what you're doing and putting the people into place. Because I'm the kind of person that, if I can't emotionally invest in what I'm doing, my work or anything in my life, I'm gonna find it uninteresting and I'm not gonna wanna be there, I'm not gonna wanna do it. And so again, going back to culture, I mean, those are the people that you wanna look out for and when we hire with purpose and when we build with purpose and create with purpose, amazing things can happen. And I think it's just so interesting how much of that is so controllable by one person. How everything that you do can affect everybody, even down to your customers, whether you interact with them or not. And so that, that's in turn to me, means holding myself to a higher standard and following through even when it's tough, being there all that, you know, when I'm, you know, showing up and being on point and doing the things that I need to do instead of just kind of riding the day and taking it one step at a time, purposely thinking out my next steps, purposely communicating with the staff and things of that nature, just all of those things are in my control and that's something that I have the opportunity to really continue to foster and create in my role.

Conclusion
Right, and I mean, it's one of the things that you're good at, like caring or just giving a damn. You know what I mean? Like caring about what you do is kind of at the core of it, for sure. And that goes for everybody that you hire as well. You'd want them to give a damn. You want them to care about what they're doing. Because if they don't, then they're not gonna do good work and they're not gonna feel fulfilled. And it's like, I'm with you. Like if I'm not emotionally invested in what I'm doing, I'm doing the wrong thing or I'm working with the wrong organization. Like, I need to be emotionally invested in what's going on. Because that's where magic happens. So.

Real-World Example: Whole Foods
Kara: Yeah. And where magic happens. I think one of my first real experiences with organizations caring about their employees was the Whole Foods and Baton Rouge. I worked there and started there in 2008 or so. And you could just tell that the leadership was great at that time, the benefits were really good. The pay was good for that time in 2008, which is many means to go. And so the environment was looking. The people were happy. Our guests were taken care and satisfied. And so, while the same things may not be true today, it's been many, almost 20 years since I've been a part of that organization, you know? But it's a very simple and basic concept at the core of it. And so, you know, it's important to get people democracy in their environments.

Conclusion on Self-Autonomy
Self-autonomy. Like, yeah, determination. Like, they get to make their own decisions and be creative. It's interesting that you said Whole Foods because the guy who wrote conscious capitalism was the founder of Whole Foods. And it's one of the best books. In fact, the stool situation, the bar stool, the four stakeholders in an organization, that definitely came from him. I can't remember the guy's name.

Kara: Right, John McKean. John McKean, my cat, Matthew. Yep, and to it, conscious capitalism, one of the best books I've ever read. In fact, I think I suggested that when we did our management summit there in Birmingham. So, as a good one, as a good one. Well, cool.